THIS SHOULD NOT TO BE USED FOR RESEARCH PURPOSES THE INFORMATION PRESENTED HERE MAY NOT BE 100%  ACCURATE!


Why does the music you hear on the radio sound different from the music you hear on other media platforms such as CDs, DVD, streaming services, YouTube, etc. People have noticed this and they started to ask questions about why this is the case.

The sound of radio has been described in many different ways such as louder, fuller, richer, thicker. Some say music sounds better on the radio others say it sounds bad, so you can see this is a very subjective area.

OK so the main point is music on the radio sounds different, but why is this the case?

What you have to understand is that the music that comes out of the radio stations are heavily processed. Radio stations run their  music through a number of different audio processors before sending it out to the transmitter to be broadcast.

Audio processors manipulates or alter the audio signal in some form or fashion which can in turn change the way it sounds. Take for example an equalizer an which is an audio processor which allows you to control the levels of different frequencies in an audio signal by  using an equalizer you can boost or cut different frequencies and this boosting or cutting of different frequencies can change the sound of the audio signal.

There are many different types and categories of audio processing such as equalization and filtering which are very common, but another category that is also common is called dynamics processing which involves AGCs, compressors, levellers, limiters, clippers, expanders and gates.
A lot of the processing that is done by the radio stations involves dynamic processing take a look at compression which takes center stage in radio stations processing they are big on compression more specifically multiband compression radio stations use a lot of  it. Other types of dynamics processors involved are AGCs, limiters and clippers. 


The typical processing chain for a radio station is an AGC > multiband compression and limiting, > clipping. To break it down compression, limiting and clipping with other stuff in between.
